let's bring in Mike Hannah now he joins
us from Washington DC Mike what's the
reaction been there to the Israeli raid
on Gaza alifa
Hospital well we've just had a statement
released quoted by several news agencies
here in which the White House is quoted
as saying that it does not support
striking a hospital from the air and
does not want to see a firefight in a
hospital after the Israeli military said
it was carrying out this particular
particular Aid at alifa hospital now the
official who made the statement is not
identified however it's identified as a
spokesperson for the White House
National Security Council the official
says that we do not want to see a
firefight in a hospital where innocent
people helpless people sick people
trying to get medical care they deserve
are caught in the crossfire hospitals
and patients must be protected the
spokesperson is quoted as say saying now
this is an echo of something that
President Biden said in the last 24
hours where he stated very clearly he
believes that hospitals should be
protected the United States is opposed
to action being taken against hospitals
so this all some 24 hours ago now we
have this latest statement from the
White House trying to get clarity on
exactly who the spokesperson is being
quoted by various news agencies all
right well stay with us mik because
Hamas is really a statement it says it
holds Israel and US President Joe Biden
fully responsible for the raid on alifa
Hospital in the statement the group said
the US essentially gave the green light
for the operation when the White House
said it supported Israel's claims that
Hamas uses a hospital for military
purposes well Hamas has again denied the
allegations calling them a false
narrative so M Hamas accusing the White
House of essentially greenlighting the
operation
well let's just unpick this and take a
look at the timeline in the course of
the day we had the National Security
advisor for the White House John Kirby
uh briefing journalist in which he said
that the US had received information or
had got information that Hamas was using
alifa hospital as a command node and
possibly a weapon storage facility now
he would not provide any detail saying
that he did not want to get into the
graner details of this intelligence
information he implied that the
information came from both the US's own
sources as well as those of Israel but
he made very clear that uh he wouldn't
give any further details he refused to
be drawn on what evidence he had what
tangible evidence uh that he could
provide to bolster this claim which is
similar to the claim that has been made
by Israel so in terms of the timing that
we've seen a few hours after the state M
by the National Security advisor to the
White House you have Israel army
launching this attack on alifa Hospital
uh that is the background to it that is
why Hamas is making the claim in turn
that that statement by the National
Security advisor constituted what
amounts to a green light for the
Israelis to begin this operation not
withstanding what President Biden said
in the past 24 hours and that is why
we've got another White House official
being quoted as saying that hospitals
must be protected in Washington DC for
us Mike Hannah thank
you